1Q) what is docker ?

Docker is basically an open source containerization platform . It enables developers to package appalications into containers.
--->I use docker basically to create containers images and push registaries.

2Q) How is container differnet from virtual machine?

conatiners are light weight in nature  because they do not have complete OS like virtual machines . but they have very dependencies that are mandatory which is used to run 
appalications .for example if i am running a java appalication so what i need my appalication i need java run time dependencies to run appalication i need system libraries to run app.

that's they are light weight i nature . where come to instances or vms they need fixed memory and ram containers do not require that they use host operating system.

3Q) what is docker lifecycle?

Users would create a Dockerfile with set of instructions or commands that defines a docker image .For example which base image to choose what are the dependencies should install 
to run appalications etc..
Docker images act as set of instructions to build a docker container it can be compared like snapshot like vm

            build                run                     push
Dockerfile-------->Docker image ------>dockercontainer------->registary

4Q) what are the Different docer componenets/architecture ?

Docker client/CLI :- these is the one which helps to run commands .
Docker host :-- The place where the docker is installed
Docker registary :- Thisthe place where the images are stored.

5Q) what is differance between ADD and COPY ?

copy :- It helps us to copy files from our host to contanier
ADD :- It helps us to copy files from our host to contanier as well as from internet too.

6Q) what is differance between CMD and entry point?

CMD :- it used to executes commands in conatiner.
ENTRYPOINT :- It is used to run commands on container it overides CMD.

7Q) what are the networking types in docker and what is default ?
There are five typesof network in docker and default network in docker is bridged network .
a) Bridged:- 
  --------
  A private internal network on a single host
  Containers can talk to each other using container names
  Uses NAT to access the outside world
b)Host :-
  Container shares the host’s network stack
  No isolation between container and host networking.
c)None:-
  No networking at all.
  Container is completely isolated.
d)Overlay:-
  A network that spans multiple Docker hosts
  Containers communicate as if on the same LAN
  Uses encrypted VXLAN tunnels
e)Macvlan :-
  Gives containers real IPs on your local network
  Containers appear as physical devices on the LAN

8Q)what is a multistage build in docker?
  
9Q) what are distroless images in docker?

Distroless images contain only appalication and run time dependencies with a very minimum operating system libraries. They do not contain package managers shells or any other 
programs you would in in normal linux distrubition .they are very small and light weight.

