Managing Installed services :

Services : These services are programs which is called daemons.

daemons : These are the background the processes that once started run countineously in the background and ready for input and monitor changes 
          in our computer and respond to them.
		  
		  Ex: tomcat - 8080
		  nginix -80
		  https -443
		  
List all services and their statuses:

systemctl list-units --type=service (systemctl httpd) (systemctl list-units --type=target)
systemctl --level 012345 off
		  
Internet:--(Chat gpt)

  
  Service:

A service is a program or process that runs in the background to provide specific functionality to other applications or users, often managed by an operating system. Services can be part of a larger application or system (e.g., a web server, database server).
In many modern systems, services are typically controlled using service management frameworks like systemd or init.d.
Daemon:

A daemon is a type of background process that runs independently of user control. Daemons often start when the system boots and handle tasks like managing hardware, logging system events, or providing network services.
The term "daemon" is often used in Unix and Linux environments.
Differences
Context of Use:

Services are often referred to in the context of service-oriented architecture or application services.
Daemons are generally associated with lower-level system processes.
Management:

Services are typically managed using system management tools (e.g., systemctl for systemd).
Daemons may be started and stopped manually, but they can also be managed by service management frameworks.
User Interaction:

Services may require user configuration and may have user interfaces (e.g., web interfaces).
Daemons usually do not have a user interface and run silently in the background.
Commands
The commands used to manage services and daemons can vary depending on the operating system and its service management framework. Here are examples for Linux systems using systemd:

For Services
Start a service: systemctl start <service-name>
Stop a service: systemctl stop <service-name>
Restart a service: systemctl restart <service-name>
Enable a service to start at boot: systemctl enable <service-name>
Check the status of a service: systemctl status <service-name>
For Daemons
Daemons are usually managed as services, so the same systemctl commands apply. However, for traditional daemons, you might see commands like:

Starting a daemon: /etc/init.d/<daemon-name> start (for SysVinit)
Stopping a daemon: /etc/init.d/<daemon-name> stop
			 
			 
